>> REPORTER: CIVILIANS AND GAZA
HAVE BEEN STRUGGLING TO SURVIVE
THE WAR INTENSIFIED THEIR.
ONE YOUNG BLOGGERS VIDEO
DIRECTOR HAS DOCUMENTED THE
STRUGGLES AND TRAGEDIES PEOPLE
HAVE ENDURED IN THE ENCLAVE
AMID THE CONFLICT.
CNN'S JOMANA KARADSHEH HAS THAT.
UP YOU >> LIFE BEFORE THE WARS
FELT LIKE A DISTANT MEMORY FOR
VIDEO BLOGGER AYAT KHADDOURA.
THEY WERE THE DAYS WHERE SHE
WOULD SMILE IN HER VIDEOS,
TAKING HER FOLLOWERS BEHIND THE
SCENES OF HER WORK IN GAZA.
FOR WEEKS NOW, HER POSTS HAVE
BEEN ABOUT LIFE AT A TIME OF
WAR.
>> TRANSLATOR: WE NOW WAKE UP
AT 5 AM TO QUEUE FOR BREAD, WE
NOW WALK MORE THAN SIX
KILOMETERS TO FURTHER --
OF FRESHWATER.
WE CHARGE OUR PHONES ON THE
STREETS USING THE SOLAR POWER
WE CAN FIND.
WE CRAVE OUR FAVORITE FOODS,
BUT THERE IS NO POWER, NO GAS
OR WATER, SO WE HAVE TO MAKE DO
WITH CANNED FOODS.
>> REPORTER: SHE SHOWED PEOPLE
HOW GAZANS SURVIVE, NEIGHBORS
SHARING THE LITTLE THEY HAVE TO
BAKE BREAD IN CLAY OVENS AND AT
TIMES, ABOUT HOW CLOSE DEATH
FELT, AS BOMBS RAIN DOWN ON
GAZA.
>> TRANSLATOR: THIS MIGHT BE MY
LAST VIDEO.
THEY DROPPED LEAFLETS ASKING
PEOPLE TO EVACUATE THE AREA.
MOST PEOPLE FLED.
PEOPLE WERE RUNNING IN THE
STREETS LIKE CRAZY, NOT KNOWING
WHERE TO GO.
THE SITUATION IS TERRIFYING.
GOD HAVE MERCY ON US.
>> REPORTER: AS THE WAR
INTENSIFIED IN THE NORTH, AYAT
DID NOT LEAVE.
THE SAFETY THEY WERE TOLD TO
EVACUATE TO IN THE SOUTH WAS AN
ILLUSION.
NOWHERE IN GAZA IS SAFE, SHE
SAID.
>> TRANSLATOR: DEATH AND
DESTRUCTION IS EVERYWHERE IN
GAZA.
THE OCCUPATION HAS NO MERCY ON
ANYONE, NOT FOR ELDERLY, NOT
THE CHILDREN, NOT THE WOMEN, NO
ONE.
ALL CIVILIANS ARE UNDER FIRE IN
GAZA.
WHERE ARE THE DECISION-MAKERS?
WHERE'S THE WORLD?
GAZA IS BEING ANNIHILATED.
WE ARE DYING.
SOMEONE DO SOMETHING, ENOUGH.
>> REPORTER: BUT THESE
DESPERATE CRIES OF SO MANY,
LIKE AYAT, I HAVE NOT STOPPED
THIS SEEMINGLY ENDLESS
NIGHTMARE FOR THE PEOPLE OF
GAZA, WHERE BURYING THEIR DEAD
HAS WE COME THERE EVERY DAY.
EVERY MOMENT FEELS LIKE IT MAY
BE THEIR LAST.
ON MONDAY, IT WAS AYAT'S KILLED
ALONG WITH OTHER FAMILY MEMBERS
IN A NIGHT OF INTENSE
BOMBARDMENT--.
HER LAST VIDEO, THE HAUNTING
WORDS OF 27 YEAR OLD, THE FINAL
MESSAGE FROM GAZA TO THE WORLD.
>> TRANSLATOR: WE ARE HUMANS,
LIKE EVERYONE ELSE.
WE HAD BIG DREAMS.
NOW OUR DREAM IS IF WE ARE
KILLED, WE ARE A BODY IN ONE
PIECE, SO WE CAN BE IDENTIFIED,
BURIED IN A GRAVE, NOT BODY
PARTS IN A BAG.
WHEN WILL THIS WAR END?
WHO WILL REMAIN TO TELL PEOPLE
WHAT HAPPENED TO US?
WHAT WE LIVED THROUGH, WHAT WE
WITNESSED.
>> REPORTER: JOMANA KARADSHEH,
CNN, LONDON.
>>> HAPPENING NOW, THE TRUCE
BETWEEN ISRAEL AND HAMAS APPEARS
TO BE HOLDING.
MEANING OTHER PIECES OF THE DEAL
ARE KICKING INTO GEAR.
CONVOY OF UNITED NATIONS TRUCKS
PACKED WITH TONS OF HUMANITARIAN
AID NOW MOVING IN TO GAZA VIA
THE RAFAH CROSSING.
LET'S SPEAK TO ELENI GIOKOS WHO
IS LIVE FOR US IN CAIRO.
SO PLAYING OUT AS YOU EXPECTED.
WE'VE TALKED ABOUT THE AMOUNT OF
AID.
NOT QUITE ENOUGH, NOT NEARLY
ENOUGH TO DEAL WITH THE PROBLEM
THERE, BUT IT IS SIGNIFICANT
THAT THOSE TRUCKS ARE GOING IN.
>> Reporter: IT IS SIGNIFICANT.
AND IT IS SIGNIFICANTLY WAY MORE
THAN WE'VE SEEN SINCE OCTOBER 7.
IMPORTANT TO REMEMBER THAT
BEFORE THE WAR BEGAN, THERE WERE
OVER 445 TRUCKS GOING INTO GAZA
ON A DAILY BASIS ON A GOOD DAY.
SO THIS WAS A POPULATION THAT
ALREADY HEAVILY RELIED ON AID.
AND THEN YOU SEE THE WAR
BREAKING OUT AND NOW WE ARE
HEARING THAT JUST ABSOLUTE
CATASTROPHIC SCENARIOS ON THE
GROUND AND REI WILL RATED BY THE
INTERNATIONAL AID ORGANIZATIONS.
BUT I WANT TO TAKE YOU THROUGH
WHAT WE'VE SEEN TODAY.
YOU AND I HAVE BEEN TALKING
ABOUT HOW MANY TRUCKS HAVE BEEN
GATHERING AT THE BORDER OVER THE
LAST FEW DAYS IN ANTICIPATION
FOR THIS TRUCE TO KICK IN.
BECAUSE THERE IS AN
UNDERSTANDING OF JUST HOW MANY
DELAYS OCCUR BECAUSE OF THE
CHECKPOINTS, BECAUSE THEY NEED
TO FIGURE OUT THE LOGISTICS.
NOT ONLY ON THE EGYPTIAN SIDE,
BUT ALSO ONCE THEY CROSS OVER
INTO GAZA.
90 AID TRUCKS HAVE NOW GONE INTO
THE GAZA SIDE OF THE BORDER,
THAT IS SIGNIFICANT.
SO THEY HAVE GONE THROUGH THE
INITIAL CHECKPOINTS, THEY THEN
GET CHECKED ON THE ISRAELI SIDE
AS WELL.
AND THEN OFFLOADED AND MOVED
STRAIGHT INTO GAZA.
SEVEN FUEL TRUCKS AS WELL GOING
IN.
IDF SAY THAT THE GAS QUOTA THAT
HAS GONE IN ALREADY TODAY IS
SPECIFICALLY FOR COOKING
PURPOSES FOR HUMANITARIAN NEEDS
AND HUMANITARIAN INFRASTRUCTURE.
THEY HAVE BEEN VERY CLEAR TO SAY
THAT THIS WAS PART OF THE DEAL.
OVERALL OVER FOUR DAYS, 200 AID
TRUCKS ARE EXPECTED GO IN,
130,000 LITERS OF DIESEL FUEL
TOGETHER WITH OTHER GAS TRUCKS
AS WELL EXPECTED TO GO IN.
YOU'VE REITERATED THE POINT IT
IS A FRACTION OF THE NEEDS EVEN
QATARIS SAY THAT YESTERDAY, YOU
KNOW, THE TESTIMONIES WE'VE
HEARD FROM PEOPLE INSIDE OF
GAZA, THAT THEY WERE SCRAMBLING
FOR JUST PIECES OF BREAD,
RUNNING OUT OF WATER, DRINKING
DIRTY WATER AND OF COURSE
DISEASES PLAYING OUT RIGHT NOW
WHICH HAS CREATED ANOTHER LAYER
OF THE HUMANITARIAN CRISIS.
WE ALSO HAVE HEARD
EGYPTIANS THAT PALESTINIANS
STRANDED IN EGYPT, IF THEY WISH
TO RETURN TO GAZA, THEY ARE ABLE
TO DO SO THROUGH RAFAH.
THAT IS QUITE IMPORTANT TO
REMEMBER.
WE'VE HEARD SOME MOVEMENT ON
THAT THAT IT COULD BE OCCURRING
TODAY.
INJURED PALESTINIANS ARE COMING
THROUGH THE RAFAH BORDER, SO TOO
ARE FOREIGN NATIONALS AND DUAL
PASSPORT HOLDERS.
JUST TODAY SEEING SOME OF THE
IMAGES GOING THROUGH, THERE WERE
ACTUALLY BANNERS ON SOME OF
THESE TRUCKS THAT READ TOGETHER
FOR HUMANITY AND THEN ALSO FOR
OUR BROTHERS IN GAZA.
SO EVERYONE TRYING TO TAKE AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR THE WINDOW THAT
HAS OPENED UP, BUT THE
LOGISTICAL SIDE WE SHOULD NOT
FORGET WHAT IT TAKES TO GET THE
AID DISTRIBUTED IN THE SOUTH OF
GAZA IN THE VERY LEAST.
>> AND SPEAKING TO OXFAM
EARLIER, THEY WERE DESCRIBING
HOW THEY HAVE THIS HUGE
CHALLENGE BECAUSE THERE IS A LOT
OF AID AGENCIES THAT WERE USING
CROSSINGS BETWEEN ISRAEL AND
GAZA IN THE PAST, AND THEY HAVE
HAD TO MOVE ALL OF THEIR
LOGISTICS, ALL OF THEIR
OPERATIONS INTO EGYPT, WHICH HAS
BEEN A HUGE CHALLENGE.
SO THIS HASN'T BEEN EASY GETTING
THOSE TRUCKS THERE FOR A START.
>> Reporter: YEAH, EXACTLY.
AND I THINK ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT WE KEEP TALKING ABOUT IS
JUST CAN WE GET MORE AID INTO
GAZA.
BUT IT IS THE WAREHOUSING AND
LOGISTICAL SIDE OF  CHAINS THAT
THINK OF.
AND THEY HAVE TO BE OFFLOADED
INTO TRUCKS BY THE RED CRESCENT.
SO THERE IS SO MANY ELEMENTS TO
THIS AND IT IS ALSO THE
CHECKPOINTS THAT REALLY SLOW
THINGS DOWN.
U.N. FAR IT INMARTIN GRIFFITH S
THAT THEY HAVE BEEN A PART OF
THE DEAL IN TERMS OF THE FUEL
QUESTION BECAUSE WE KNOW THAT
HAS ALWAYS BEEN A STICKING POINT
BECAUSE IT COULD END UP IN THE
HANDS OF HAMAS.
>> ELENI GIOKOS, THANK YOU.
WE'LL BE WITH YOU WITHOUT THE
DAY AS THE AID TRICKLES IN.